
\subsection{Individual Differences in Morphological Processing}

Traditional models of word recognition have typically characterised processing at the level of the skilled reader in general, abstracting over individual differences in favour of a uniform cognitive architecture. Yet readers vary considerably in how they process morphologically complex words, and understanding that variation offers a window into the representations and processes underlying morphological sensitivity.

The Lexical Quality Hypothesis \citep{CITATION} provides a principled account of such differences. On this view, lexical representations vary in quality across readers — that is, in how completely and precisely a word's orthographic, phonological, and semantic constituents are specified and interconnected. High-quality representations enable rapid, automatic activation of a word's sound and meaning from its visual form; low-quality representations are partial or underspecified, producing processing that is slower, less reliable, and more dependent on contextual support. Individual differences in reading and spelling skill can be understood as reflecting differences in lexical quality \citep{CITATION}, with more skilled readers possessing more precise orthographic representations that support faster word identification and greater resistance to interference from orthographically similar forms.

Critically, readers do not differ along a single dimension of lexical quality. Andrews and colleagues \citep{CITATION} have demonstrated that individual differences in orthographic and semantic knowledge are dissociable and predict distinct patterns of morphological processing. Readers with a semantic profile — defined by relatively higher vocabulary than spelling ability — show robust priming for transparent morphological pairs but little priming for opaque or form-only pairs, particularly for slower responses. Readers with an orthographic profile — defined by relatively higher spelling than vocabulary — show sustained priming for opaque pairs that is at least as strong as for transparent pairs. Andrews and Lo \citeyearpar{CITATION} interpret this pattern as evidence that a systematic component of individual differences among skilled readers is explicable in terms of the balance between orthographic and semantic processing: readers differ not merely in overall processing efficiency but in the relative weight they assign to form-based versus meaning-based information during lexical access.

The present study builds directly on this finding. If stem frequency and family size index form-based and meaning-based aspects of morphological representation respectively, then readers who differ in their balance of orthographic and semantic processing should differ predictably in their sensitivity to each variable. Moreover, if these differences have a temporal structure — with form-based processing preceding semantic processing in the recognition cascade — they should be traceable to distinct ERP components. To capture the full range of this variation continuously rather than as a categorical split, the present study derives two orthogonal individual difference dimensions — Language Proficiency and Orthographic Sensitivity — from a principal components analysis of vocabulary knowledge, spelling ability, and print exposure. If stem frequency and family size are differentially modulated by these two dimensions, and if those modulations emerge at distinct stages in the ERP, this would constitute direct electrophysiological evidence that orthographic and semantic processing represent a genuine and temporally structured axis of variation in the human reading system.
