
\subsection{Aims and Predictions}

The present study has two complementary aims. The first is to establish whether stem frequency and morphological family size exert their effects at distinct temporal stages of visual word recognition, using ERP to track processing in real time. The second, and primary, aim is to examine whether individual differences in orthographic and semantic processing — captured by two continuous dimensions, Orthographic Sensitivity and Language Proficiency, derived from a principal components analysis of spelling ability, vocabulary knowledge, and print exposure — modulate these effects selectively, at the processing stages where each variable is predicted to operate.

The core prediction is a double dissociation: Orthographic Sensitivity should modulate stem frequency effects at the level of early form-based processing, as indexed by the N250, while Language Proficiency should modulate family size effects at the level of semantic access, as indexed by the N400. This prediction follows directly from Andrews and Lo's \citeyearpar{CITATION} finding that the balance between orthographic and semantic processing is a genuine and measurable axis of individual variation, combined with the broadly shared theoretical assumption that stem frequency reflects form-level access and family size reflects the richness of semantic representation. If this double dissociation is observed, it would constitute direct electrophysiological evidence that the distinction between form-based and meaning-based morphological processing is not merely a property of competing computational models but a real axis of variation in the reading system. If, instead, both variables are modulated by the same individual difference dimension at the same processing stage, this would suggest that the two effects are less dissociable than current multi-stage accounts propose.

The first analysis examines these predictions in real word recognition. Because real words were not matched across morphological variables — reflecting the naturalistic distributional properties of morphologically complex words rather than an orthogonally controlled factorial design — stem frequency, family size, and morphological complexity are treated as continuous predictors in a regression framework for reaction times. For ERP data, items were median-split into high and low groups separately for stem frequency and family size to yield stable waveforms for comparison. The two measures therefore carry somewhat different inferential weight: the RT regression speaks to the independent continuous contributions of each variable, while the ERP analyses speak to the direction and timing of effects at the extremes of each variable's distribution.

The second analysis examines whether these individual difference modulations generalise to novel morphological structure, using morphologically complex nonwords. Morphologically structured nonwords (e.g., \textit{gasful}: real stem + real affix) were compared against matched controls (e.g., \textit{gasfil}: real stem + pseudoaffix), holding stem identity constant while manipulating suffix legitimacy. Because these items have no stored whole-word representations, they place maximal pressure on the system's generalisation mechanism and allow stem-level variables to be examined independently of whole-word familiarity. The key prediction is that Orthographic Sensitivity should modulate early N250 responses to the suffix contrast: if sensitivity to suffix structure is driven by form-cue learning rather than a fixed parsing operation, it should vary across readers in proportion to the precision of their sublexical orthographic representations. Language Proficiency, by contrast, should predict later N400 modulation reflecting the semantic consequences of suffix legitimacy.

Taken together, the two analyses ask a single question from two angles: whether the balance between orthographic and semantic processing — established as an individual difference dimension in the behavioral literature — has a temporal structure that is visible in the electrophysiological signal, and whether stem frequency and family size are its form-level and meaning-level correlates respectively.

