Base frequency  refers to the frequency of the base or root morpheme of a word, cumulative root frequency refers to the summed token frequency of all word forms containing a particular root and finally morphological family size  refers to the number (type frequency) of different words  that share a common morphological root. 

Research has shown that all other things being equal words with larger family sizes, higher surface frequencies, higher base frequencies and  larger family sizes are often processed faster in visual lexical decision tasks. For complex words a high base frequency can facilitate the recognition of complex words sharing that base potentially because of the increased activation of related lexical entries.  H

and morpheme frequency effects have often been used to test whether derived words activate morphemic representations;

The cumulative root frequency effect refers to the finding that words with high cumulative root frequency are responded to faster and more accurately than words with low cumulative root frequency when surface frequency is controlled \citep{taftRecognitionAffixedWords1979}  Taft (1979).  The family size effects refers to the finding that  lexical decision response times to words with larger family sizes (i.e., appearing as a constituent in larger numbers of derived words and compounds) are faster than for words with smaller family sizes. The cumulative root frequency effect only occurs in words with productive affixes, whereas the family size effect occurs regardless of affix productivity. Semantically transparent family members drove family size effects and the family size effect was largely absent or attenuated in semantically opaque family members. Both family size and  cumulative root frequency reflect sensitivity to mophological structure, but  there is not consensus in the field regarding their relationship.  The family size effect has hypothesized to reflect the activation of semantic representations as it sensitive to semantic transparency.  In contrast, the cumulative root frequency effect is affected by affix productivity, hence it has been hypothesized to the activation of morphological form representations.

The base frequency effect srefers to the influence of a word's root (or base) frequency on how quickly and easily we process morphologically complex words containing that root. In simpler terms, if a word shares a frequently used root with other words, it tends to be processed faster than a similar word with a less frequent root. This effect suggests that our brains might be sensitive to the morphological structure of words and how often we encounter those individual components. 

In this study we chose to examine  non-word processing in order to manipulate the orthographic properties of stimuli with greater precision than is possible using real words.  We examined the effect of morphological structure on non-word recognition via the morpheme interference effect, or non-word complexity effect.  This effect occurs when non-words that are created by combining existing morphemes (e.g., GASFUL) are rejected more slowly in a lexical decision task than words that do not have lexical structure (e.g., GASFIL).  We hypothesized that the amplitude of the N250 component to  these non-words would be modulated by participant reading style, as well as by morphological family size, and/or cumulative root frequency, and specifically that  this modulation of the n250 response by morphological structure would be greater for readers with greater sensitivity to the morphological structure of words, or better `lexical quality'.  Our dependent measure was the magnitude N250 response.  The N250 is a negative-going wave that starts as early as 110 milliseconds and peaks around 250 milliseconds. {\renewcommand\&{and}\citet{holcombTimeCourseVisual2006}}  suggest that the N250 reflects the process that maps sub-lexical orthographic and phonological representations onto whole word representations.  

In masked morphological priming studies, the N250 has been found to be affected by semantic transparency, with unrelated items in transparent conditions showing significantly more negative responses than related items (Morris et al., 2007) 

The study was designed to test the hypothesis that skilled readers engage in morpho-orthographic decomposition when processing visually presented non-words that resemble real morphologically complex words. Specifically, we predicted that ERP responses would reflect early decomposition processes for non-words that contain both a real stem and a real affix (e.g., gasful), but not for structurally similar non-words that contain a real stem and a non-affix (e.g., gasfil). These morphologically complex and simple non-words were matched in surface form but differed in whether they conformed to the structure of real morphologically derived words. If readers are sensitive to morpho-orthographic structure, we expected this contrast to elicit differences in ERP amplitude, particularly in the N250 time window, which has been linked to early form-based morphological processing. We further predicted that sensitivity to morpho-orthographic structure would be modulated by morphological family size—that is, the number of real words sharing the same stem. Because stems with large morphological families occur in more derived forms and thus provide stronger cues for decomposition, we expected an additive effect such that complex non-words with large-family stems would elicit the strongest evidence of decomposition. In contrast, simple non-words and items with small-family stems were expected to show reduced or absent decomposition effects. Finally, we predicted that individual differences in lexical quality—indexed by spelling and vocabulary measures—would modulate these effects, with stronger and more reliable decomposition effects observed in participants with higher sensitivity to orthographic structure.

\subsection{Participants}
We tested 75 participants recruited from the UMass–Five Colleges consortium community in Amherst, MA. Participants were included if they were between the ages of 18 and 26, right-handed, reported having normal or corrected-to-normal vision with no history of cognitive or reading-related difficulties and were native English speakers with no other languages spoken in the home before the age of 3. Three participants were excluded for exceeding the protocol’s age range, two for beign non-native English speakers and nine were excluded due to data loss, resulting in a final sample of 61 participants (age range: 18–25 years, M = 19.7). Of these, 45 identified as female, 15 as male, and one did not report their sex. All participants provided informed consent prior to the start of the study and were paid for their participation. All materials and procedures were reviewed and approved by the IRB committee at Hampshire  College.

To assess whether our study was adequately powered to detect effects of similar magnitude to those reported in prior ERP studies ...
